2 Chronicles chapter 34 verse 1 and reads as follows, Josiah was 8 years old when he began to reign and he reigned in Jerusalem 1 and 30 years.
And he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord and walked in the ways of David his father and declined neither to the right hand nor the left.
For the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after God of David his father.
And in the twelfth year, he began to purge Jude and Jerusalem from the hide places and the groves and the carved images and molten images.
And they break down the altars of Balaam in his presence and the images that were high above them.
They cut down and the groves.
and the carved images and molten images he break in pieces, and make dust of them, and strutted upon the graves of them that had sacrificed unto them.
And he burnt the bones and the priests upon their altars, and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem.
And so he did in the cities of Manasseh and Ephraim and Simeon, even under Naftali with their mattocks round about.
And when he had broken down the altars and the groves and had beaten down the gravid images into powder and cut all the idols throughout all the land of Israel,
He returned to Jerusalem.
Now the 18th year of his reign, when he had purged the land in the house he sent Chaffin, the son of Azaliah, and Macyiah, the governor of the city, and Joah, the son of Joahaz, the recorder to repair the house of the Lord his God.
Fast forward to verse number 15.
And Hilkiah answered and said unto Shapham the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the Lord, and Hilkiah delivered the book unto Shapham.
And Shapham carried the book to the king and brought the king word back again, saying, all that was committed to thy servants, they do it.
And they have gathered together money that was found in the house of the Lord and delivered it into the hands of the overseers and in the hands of the workmen.
Then Shapham the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath given me a book.
And Chaffin read it before the king, and it came to pass when the king had heard the words of the law, that he rent his clothes.
And the king commanded Hillchia and Acam, the son of Chaffin and Abdon, the son of Micah, and Chaffin the scribe, and Azziah the servant and the king, saying, Go and inquire of the Lord for me, and for them that are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the book that is found.
For great is the wrath of the Lord that is poured upon us.
because our fathers have not kept the word of the Lord to do after all that is written in this book.
Let's pray before we get on to today's message.
Dear God, thank you for your word, the Bible, that we have it to learn and study from, to have it to fill our lives, to guide our lives, and to heal ourselves, to really fill ourselves and fill our spirits with joy with everything, Lord.
We're so thankful we have your word, the Bible.
Be with me now as I try to speak from it.
In Jesus' name, amen.
So last time when I spoke, we studied one of these characters, lesser-known characters in the Bible, Balaam.
And, you know, it turned out he wasn't that great of a guy.
So today we'll look at another lesser-known character, but some of that actually turned out to be a pretty good guy.
And that guy is King Josiah.
King Josiah, okay?
So maybe some of you guys have heard of him, maybe not.
But we read here in the Bible a few things about King Josiah, all right?
First thing from the very outset, the introductory notes in verses one and two, we read that he became king at age eight years old, right?
Eight years old.
Just the kid, right?
All of you guys here save the two kids in the back, right?
All older than eight years old, right?
And he was king for 31 years, right?
31 years king of Judah.
And this was according to historical people that know better than me around the 600s BC when he was the king in Judah.
And why if you remembered as a good king, right?
If you remember, if you ever studied the book of kings and chronicles, there's a certain pattern, right?
You get some kings who are bad kings, right?
They let idolatry run wild.
They let paganism run wild.
And then every once in a while, you get a good king that tries to set things right.
And on balance, there are more bad kings and good kings, right?
So Josiah is recording the Bible here, is one of the good kings.
In verse two, it says that he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord.
So what are some of the things that he did that were right?
What does it say in the Bible?
It says, number one, he broke down the altars, right?
By that time, his predecessors had allowed Ali Dahl Tree to run so rampant that there were altars to all these other gods.
There were altars, there were idols.
They were idols.
What did he do?
The idols?
He purged the idols.
We read in these verses that not only did he break down the altars and get rid of the idols, he basically ground them down into pieces in the dust.
That's how much he hated the idols, right?
It's not just we're thrown away.
We're going to grind them down, right?
How much did he hate this idolatry?
He even found the bones of the priests that were, you know,
encouraging this idolatry, and he had those bones burned, right?
He wanted to send a message that, hey, guess what?
We're not following that way anymore, right?
We're gonna not associate ourselves with all these people that brought us toward idolatry.
And that was his first steps.
That was his first steps.
But here's the big thing, I think, that is significant about Josiah and his reign.
You know, how far had Judah fallen?
How far had Judah fallen in these years?
Fallen so much,
that people basically forgot, forgot about God's word.
Can you imagine that?
That people forgot about God's word.
We read in the verses here that, you know, he had commanded people to start fixing up the temple, right?
He had commanded people to start fixing up the temples.
And while they're fixing up the temples, what happened was in verse number 15, one of the guys says, look, we were fixing up the house of the Lord and we found this, we found this book.
Right?
The holy scriptures.
That's how little regard people in Judah had for God by that time.
That they had just forgotten, right?
They could literally say, well, we've forgotten all about this holy book, right?
We've forgotten about God's word.
And of course, things were a little bit different back then, right?
It's not like today where Bible, you can get it anywhere for like $1 or whatever, right?
And there's copies everywhere.
Back then, it was a special thing, right?
They have the holy scriptures.
They're probably some scrolls somewhere put in the temple, very important, very sacred.
But the fact that no one would read them and no one would even know where they were until they cleaned the temple tells you about the state of the people, that even the people working in the temple didn't care about this.
But Josiah cared about this.
Once he heard what was written there, he knew immediately that Judah had gone wrong, that their country was doing the wrong thing.
and he rent his clothes and he was ashamed.
And he told his people, we need to change.
We need to change.
We've been doing it wrong.
We've not been following God's word.
We need to turn back to God's word.
And that's why he's remembered as this good king, right?
Because he knew right away the importance of following God's word.
He led this revival in
during his reign, during the 31 years that he was around.
Sadly, we know from history and from our study of the other prophets, right?
We know that did last.
Later on, it switched again.
There's the bad kings.
There's the people that like to worship idols once again.
It wasn't permanent.
But at least for this one time during his reign, these 31 years, God blessed Judah.
He withheld his judgment.
Surely there were many people in that time
that had done plenty of sin, that had not been following God, they didn't even know God's word.
God's word was this unknown book that no one could see or no one knew.
But, but even though people are like that, God withheld his judgment because Josiah knew the right answer, which is let's get back.
Let's get back to God's way.
Let's get back to God's word.
So that,
is Josiah's story in short form, whatever form we can study in these few minutes we have here.
But what can we glean from this, the significance, the lessons of this?
A couple things I'll point out today.
Number one, Josiah was able to do right and impact things even from a young age.
He was eight years old when he became king, right?
And then we started reading, like in verse three, in the eighth year of his reign, he started doing all this stuff.
8th year of his reign means what?
8 plus 8, 16 years old.
Everyone here almost is over 16 years old, right?
So a lot of people sometimes will say, oh, you know, I can't serve God and I'm too young, right?
I'm not ready to do it or whatever.
That's not true.
God can use anyone.
Even a 16 years old kid can bring about such a huge change.
All of us here today have no excuse.
Most of us are way older than 16 years old.
People like me, I'm like more than double 16 years old, right?
I can start.
I have no excuse to say, oh, I can't serve God.
I can't follow God.
I'm too young.
I'm too inexperienced.
I'm whatever.
No, no, no.
Josiah chose us.
that it doesn't matter how old you are, we all have that same responsibility to God.
We all have that same responsibility to God to follow Him, to serve Him.
There's no excuse of, oh, I am young, right?
There's no excuse for all of us here today that are older than Josiah was when he started doing all these things.
Second point I'll say about Josiah is this, is that he lived a life that was fully committed to God and that he was blessed for it.
He was blessed.
It's pretty simple sometimes, right?
It's pretty simple sometimes, what?
That we see later on when we study the prophets and the rest of the books of kings and chronicles that Israel and Judah, what happened to those people because they followed idolatry so much, their country was in downfall.
They got conquered by invaders.
Judgment was rendered against their country for all their sin.
And isn't it significant that during these 31 years, the 31 years at Josiah reign, there was no judgment.
There was no punishment.
There was no, oh, you're going to lose these bloody wars and thousands of people are going to die.
There's going to be famine.
There's going to be strife.
No, God withheld his judgment in honor of the country that was turning back to God, that was seeking his word.
that was following him.
God blessed his reign as king because of his attitude, the right attitude, the attitude of following God and following his word.
And of course, that leaves me to the third point, which is Josiah properly responded to God's word, properly responded to God's word.
He knew and he recognized the problem right away.
His problem when he saw that book was at
We're not following it.
He knew it immediately.
He was so ashamed.
He took off all his clothes and he knew he was shamed, right?
And the significant thing that led to the changes in Judah during the time is that he committed, we'll see later on in verse 34, he committed to saying, you know what?
We are now going to follow God's word.
We can't no longer be saying, oh, we're not going to follow it, right?
No, we have to follow his commandments, his statutes.
We need to do it with all our heart,
and so follow this book.
Do his thing.
And that's probably one of the most significant lessons we have from this.
That we all hear today, even thousands of years later, we need to follow that same guidance.
Because a lot of people would say this.
A lot of people say this.
Back then, Judah was a troubled country.
They had problems.
They were facing impending judgment.
Well, a lot of people would say this about our country today.
We have a lot of problems.
We have a lot of sin.
Are we facing impending judgment?
Nathan was talking just a little while ago about how San Francisco feels as if it's the modern day Sodom and Gomorrah.
When is God's judgment coming?
Who knows?
We certainly feel like we deserve it, don't it?
Don't we?
Don't we feel like there is sin everywhere?
Everywhere.
Just like in probably Josiah's time, no different.
So how do we deal with all these problems?
There's so many problems in the world.
The answer is the same thing that Josiah did.
There's complex problems.
People keep saying there's no answer to all these hard problems, right?
All these things facing everyone today.
But there is an answer.
The answer is to turn back to God's Word.
The more people turn to God's Word, the less problems you'll see this country have.
Right?
Unfortunately, unfortunately we face all these problems and what does our country try to do?
Our country tries to find the answer in man.
We try to find a person.
We try to find a human solution to these problems.
Right?
And we see it played out over and over again with whatever complex issue
that we see in the news and everything today.
It always gets boiled down to something too simple, maybe, that thinking, oh, one guy maybe can solve this problem or not or whatever, right?
For example, we just had the recall election, right?
What was that about?
Well, people were not happy about COVID-19, right?
They didn't like that.
They couldn't work or they couldn't go to school or whatever.
And they wanted to take out their anger.
They thought, oh,
We can replace the governor and then the problem is solved.
Now you and I both know this.
Even if he had been replaced, would COVID-19 have gone away?
No, it's not going to go away.
We still have all the same problems we have today, right?
We still have restrictions and this down and the other thing, people still get sick and whatever.
But that's how people feel.
Oh, this, if we just change this one thing, our problem is solved, right?
That's how some people approach the world today.
We have so many problems and they try to reduce it into something simple.
Now, I don't live in San Francisco, but many of you guys do, and I see the news, what all the people talking about, what are the big problems in San Francisco, it is there's so much crime nowadays.
You see in the news, all the Walgreens are shutting down because of all the shoplifting, and there are
attacks against Asians, racist attacks and all these things.
And so once again, what is the solution?
People came up with the same solution again, right?
We blame the district attorney.
I don't know the district attorney.
He could be a horrible district attorney and maybe deserves to be kicked out of office, right?
I have no idea.
But their solution is if only we could recall the district attorney, then everything would be better, right?
And my answer to that is, I don't think that's true.
I think these shoplifters will still shoplift no matter who the district attorney is because they want to steal and they want to get stuff, right?
That's the way they operate, right?
So, but that's the way people think.
Oh, we're going to put our faith in this one guy.
Please, new district attorney, save our city from all the crime, right?
Some Christians even fall into this trap, fall into this trap of putting too much faith into a person.
We had the 2020 presidential election.
Friend of mine, not friend, but guy, no.
And I don't know him that well, but he is a missionary.
He's a missionary.
So this is a very godly person, a godly person, getting people saved in other countries and stuff, right?
So someone you would normally respect and care about and his opinions and all that.
And I am friends with him on Facebook, right?
And after the 2020 election, he started posting all this stuff on Facebook about the election, just like all he ever posted about, right?
I see him spend so much time posting about the election was a fraud, right?
I was a stolen election.
We need to protest and blah, blah, blah.
And he wrote so many things that I felt for a minute, and I didn't do this, but I felt writing to him saying, you know, brother, you are a missionary.
Can't you focus on what you're supposed to be doing?
I know you're angry.
Maybe the candidate we wanted did not win, right?
But hey, don't you have a more important job?
You're not supposed to be trying to encourage people to protest the government.
You're supposed to be getting people saved.
That's your job.
You're a missionary, right?
You know this is better than me, right?
Why are you spending all your time focusing on this?
Do you think?
The country would have been, quote, saved if Donald Trump was elected president rather than Joe Biden.
My answer based on statistics is probably no, right?
Because we just know the numbers.
What is the percentage of people that went to church, that went to church during the presidency of the past four presidencies, right?
We know this.
It didn't matter who's the president, Republican, Democrat.
The number keeps going down.
America continues to fall further and further away of God.
It didn't matter if it was George W. Bush or Barack Obama or Donald Trump or now Joe Biden is getting worse, right?
The numbers keep going lower and lower, right?
People keep turning away from God.
That is the real problem.
Yet people focus on, oh, if only we had elected the right guy, maybe things would have been a lot better.
you know, spoiler alert, it's not.
And right now, there's one issue that people, Christians are so focused on that they might be losing the force from the trees.
And that is the whole, in the news, you see this whole abortion issue, right?
People are very excited that this Supreme Court term that they will like, the Supreme Court will likely take up the case of Roe versus Wade.
And maybe they'll overturn it.
And people are very excited.
And this might happen and it might be a good thing, right?
That they overturn it.
But they lose sight of one thing.
And this is me, Norman Lau here, your legal expert, the one who studied all this stuff.
Let's say that happens.
People think this.
Christians think this because they don't know the law, right?
They think, oh, once the Supreme Court finally overturns Roe versus Wade, right?
That will solve all our problems, right?
We trust in man, this manly institution.
The Supreme Court will solve it, right?
And once they overturn it, abortion is legal, right?
That's wrong!
That's not how the law works.
It will not be illegal.
It just means that there's no constitutional right regarding it.
There will still be different laws across all the different states, right?
And guess what?
Guess what?
I'm gonna say a surprising statement.
The surprising statement from me, the legal analyst, tells you this.
Even if it's overturned,
there maybe will not be a reduction in abortion rate in this country.
Why is that?
Because there'll be some states that will restrict it, right?
You look at Texas, they pass this so-called controversial law.
The controversial law did not ban abortion, still allowed it in certain circumstances, right?
So people will pass these laws to restrict it, but then there'll be other states, like California, where we live, that will say, you know what?
We are not gonna have any restrictions.
Right?
We're not going to have any restrictions.
So Mr.
Guy in Texas, if you don't like it, all you have to do is go to California.
You can have all the abortions you want.
In fact, they might even change it in California because we're run by liberals to change it now.
Right now the law is like, oh, you can't have abortions past the second trimester.
Imagine the liberal California governor and legislature says this, oh, we don't need to abide by
what that says in the row versus weight anymore, that's gone.
We're gonna change it.
You can have abortion anytime you want.
38 weeks, baby, you don't like it, send it away, gone.
I don't care.
That could be an even worse thing, in my opinion, right?
That could be a worse thing.
So we focus on, oh, the man's solution.
Oh, this person, say I'll solve the problem.
We're focusing so much on the symptom and not the disease.
The disease is the sin.
How do we cure the sin?
We cure it with God's word.
Why do people need to get abortions?
Why?
Because they're not living the godly life.
Look at what the percentage of people are doing that are.
All the statistics say, even though people focus on, oh, look at all, oh, we need abortions where people get raped and have incest.
That is less than one fraction of the people.
The mass majority are young women,
age 20s, that what do they do?
They had an unexpected pregnancy.
These are people that are doing it.
These are people that are living their life not according to God's word.
They're the ones that want to have, you know, free sex without consequences and this is the result.
They're looking to this to solve their problems, taking away other people's life to solve their problems.
We need to address that.
We need to address the moral issue.
We need to address not the issue of can we have a district attorney that puts people in jail when they do crimes.
We need to address the moral issue of how do we get these people to not do the crime in the first place?
And how to do that?
We need God's word.
That's what Josiah knew.
Josiah knew that God's word has the power to change people's heart.
That God's word can bless a nation.
That God's word can change everything.
That's what we need back in this country.
We need the hailing of God's word, the teaching of God's word.
You know, I'll tell you this based on my anecdotal evidence of watching people and seeing people.
What is one of the most effective weapons we have against crime, against abortions, against racism?
You know one of the best things and why we're gonna celebrate this next day in cake day?
It's Chinese school.
How is that?
I know you guys, some of you guys are graduates of Chinese school, right?
And I can say this, all the people that I know you that went to Chinese school, that graduated from our Chinese school, went through a program that is still in church, I know 0% of you guys have ever robbed the Walgreens.
0% of you guys have ever done a racist attack against another person.
0% of you guys have ever had an abortion.
That's a fact.
Bible believing Christians don't do those things, do they?
We need more Bible-believing Christians, and then all those problems will solve themselves.
Will they not?
We need more people enrolled in Chinese school.
We need more people getting witness to, getting saved, learning about Jesus Christ, learning about God's Word, just like Josiah said.
See this book, live this book, understand this book, make this book part of our lives.
The answer is not lying in, one person solved the problem, oh district attorney, solve my racism.
Supreme Court solved my problem of abortion.
That's not going to solve anything.
The one that can solve it all, the one with the power to solve it all, the one that can change a heart, that can change a sinner to a saint, a persecutor to a missionary.
The only one that can do that is God.
Are we turning to him?
Do we have him?
Do we have his word?
Is our country
focused on his word, focused on following him, focused on spreading his gospel.
If you want to solve the problems of the country, do that.
In conclusion, what did Josiah say in 2 Chronicles chapter 34 verse 31 says this,
and the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord and keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and with all his soul to perform the words of the covenant which are written in this book.
Is that
are saying today for ourselves.
Do we make a promise that we're going to keep His commandments and His testimonies and His statutes with all our hearts and all His soul?
We're going to follow His Bible, spread His gospel, spread His message to as many as possible.
And then maybe then we can start solving society's problems.
Let's pray.
Dear God, you know our country needs help.
We know that things are not getting better.
You know, there's always been moral decay over the years, but we know what can turn it back.
It was the same thing that turned back Judah during the reign of Josiah.
And that is your word.
Your word is powerful.
Your word is amazing.
Your word changes lives.
Lord, we ask that you help us share your word with as many people as possible.
Lord, we ask that you help us make your word manifested in our lives, that we can live out your word the best we can.
Lord, thank you for the study here of Josiah.
May we all take it to heart and may we all continue to do our best to honor and glorify you.
And pray all these things in Jesus' name, amen.